Submit the first draft for FIP discussion 86 - Revert FIP-0009 (#99)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fip-revert-fip0009.md

---
fip: To be assigned
title: Revert FIP-0009(Exempt Window PoSts from BaseFee burn)
author: @jennijuju
discussions-to: https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/issues/86
status: WIP
type: Technical
category: Core
created: 2020-05-20
spec-sections:
---

## Simple Summary

Revert FIP-0009, whhich exempts Window PoSts from BaseFee burn.

## Abstract

Do not "refund" any burned gas from any `SubmitWindowedPoSt` message sent on-chain. 

## Change Motivation

We introduced the FIP-0009, which exempts `SubmitWindowedPoSt` messages that execute successfully from base-fee burn (i.e., don't burn `baseFee*gasUsed`) as a short-term stopgap to reduce the impact of rising base fee on the gas cost for continously proving existing storage in the network back in December.

Since then, three long-term solutions for addressing the issue from root cause have been accepted in the network:

> - [FIP-0010](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0010.md), off-chain Window PoSt verification thats optimisitically accept Window PoSt proofs on-chain without verification while allowing them to be disputed later by off-chian verifiers was introduced in network v10 by actor v3. As a result, the `GasUsed` for an arbitray `SubmitWindowedPost` message has a reduction up to 90%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FIP-0010](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0010.md), off-chain Window PoSt verification thats optimisitically accept Window PoSt proofs on-chain without verification while allowing them to be disputed later by off-chain verifiers was introduced in network v10 by actor v3. As a result, the `GasUsed` for an arbitrary `SubmitWindowedPost` message has a reduction up to 90%.
```

> - [FIP-0013](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0013.md), add `ProveCommitAggregated` method to aggragate and condensing multiple proof verifications(SNARKs) into a single aggregated message that takes up less chain bandwidth using SnarkPack has been accepted and will be introduced in the network in the upcoming [HyperDrive upgrade](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community/discussions/74#discussioncomment-707228) via actor v5. This feature will relieve the network congestion as SnarkPack can aggregate 8192 SNARK proofs, whcih allows miners to submit pro-commitments for up to 819 sectors in one `ProveCommitAggregated` message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FIP-0013](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0013.md), add `ProveCommitAggregated` method to aggregate and condensing multiple proof verifications(SNARKs) into a single aggregated message that takes up less chain bandwidth using SnarkPack has been accepted and will be introduced in the network in the upcoming [HyperDrive upgrade](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community/discussions/74#discussioncomment-707228) via actor v5. This feature will relieve the network congestion as SnarkPack can aggregate 8192 SNARK proofs, which allows miners to submit prove-commitments for up to 819 sectors in one `ProveCommitAggregated` message.
```

> - [FIP-0008](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0008.md),  adds a method for a miner to submit batched pre-commitments for multiple sectors whcih also help with increasing the chain bandwidth and relive the network congestion. This FIP is also landing in the HyperDrive Network upgrade via actor v5,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [FIP-0008](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0008.md),  adds a method for a miner to submit batched pre-commitments for multiple sectors which also help with increasing the chain bandwidth and relieve the network congestion. This FIP is also landing in the HyperDrive Network upgrade via actor v5.
```

> In addition, the "free" Window Posts distort the gas market and removes any incentives for miners to reduce consumption of chian bandwidth by batching as many partitions as possible into one `SubmitWindowedPoSt` message, which wastes chain bandwidth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the "free" Window Posts distort the gas market and removes any incentives for miners to reduce consumption of chain bandwidth by batching as many partitions as possible into one `SubmitWindowedPoSt` message, which wastes chain bandwidth.
```
